---
layout: post
title: "Heads Up: 2015 Album Releases"
---

The year 2014 has just about ran its course. We’ve had a few killer late in the year releases (D’Angelo, Ariel Pink, and maybe Chance the Rapper), but we’ll take note of those late releases and move on. Here are some expected 2015 releases that should keep fans excited.

- The Social Experiment (Chance the Rapper) – Band backed Surf should be out early 2015 if not late 2014 for free. Chance has mentioned his work with Migos, J. Cole, and Frank Ocean, though confirmation of their features on Surf was not specified. Lead up single “Sunday Candy” credited to member Donnie Trumpet has been in heavy rotation since it dropped and left us with high expectations for this album.
- Earl Sweatshirt – Vince Staples recently tweeted about Earl’s new album Home Alone with Reggie, which will be “dropping soon.” This vague comment at least gives the title and implies the album has been worked on. 
- Panda Bear – After peeping new Panda Bear material at Gorilla vs. Bear IV in Dallas, it was clear that while I was blinded by the Danny Perez visuals, Lennox would come through with more promising material. His 2015 LP, Panda Bear Meets the Grim Reaper, is due out January 15th.
- Sleater-Kinney – No Cities to Love drops in the U.S. January 20th followed by extensive touring. Hopefully, you can snag some tickets before they’re sold out. Carrie Brownstein’s relatively recent success with Portlandia may have upped ticket demand.
- Joey Bada$$ - 1/20/2015 I thoroughly enjoyed 1999 when it dropped back in 2012, but Summer Knights left me feeling just ok. And until recently, I wasn’t too excited about the prospect of another Joey Bada$$ album. This started to change with recent verses with Mick Jenkins, Freddie Gibbs, and others seeming to capture that spark that made me enjoy his music so much in the first place. He’s sounding angrier than ever on his recent singles “Big Dusty”, “Christ Conscious”, and “No. 99.”  I’m interested in what he can do across a debut full length LP. -Dylan
- Jessica Pratt – 1/27/2015 On Your Own Love Again Jessica Pratt released her self-titled debut album in 2012, which mostly consisted of her picking soft psych-folk songs on her guitar in the vein of Vashti Bunyan. Now signed to Drag City and starting with her excellent single “Back, Baby”, Pratt is poised to release one of the best albums of 2015.
- Twerps – 1/27/2015 Range Anxiety Australian band Twerps channeled The Clean and other Flying Nun influences on their 2014 album, Underlay. Recent singles “Back to You” and “Always Waiting” continue in this indie pop vein and provide a welcomed appetizer to their upcoming full length.
- Mount Eerie – 2/3/2015 Sauna Phil Elvrum has been releasing music for almost 20 years as The Microphones or under his current moniker Mount Eerie. His new album will be a double album revolving around the themes of Vikings, Zen, and real life.
- Hiss Golden Messenger – 2/3/2015 Southern Grammar M. C. Taylor blessed us with the fantastic Lateness of Dancers in 2014 and is now returning with a 3 song EP for 2015. Judging by how good his last album was, this release is sure to please fans and help tide us over until the next album.
- Father John Misty – 2/9/2015 I Love You, Honeybear Josh Tillman returns with his follow up to 2012’s excellent Fear Fun. Lead singles “Bored in the USA” and “Chateau Lobby #4 (in C for Two Virgins)” show Tillman continuing to expand his style adding lush string sections to complement his songs. You won’t want to miss this release.
- QUARTERBACKS – Double Double Whammy band QUARTERBACKS is label-mates with other acts like Frankie Cosmos, Mitski, Radiator Hospital, LVL UP, and Porches (if those bands mean anything to you). Their self-titled LP is expected to drop February 15th and is available for preorder on bandcamp.
- Dan Deacon – Gliss Riffer will be released February 24th in North America. While Dan Deacon’s career track record is already solid, it’s hard to know exactly what to expect.
- Modest Mouse – After moderate touring/festival appearances as of late, Modest Mouse has announced to release Strangers to Ourselves on March 3rd and is available for preorder. “Lampshades on Fire” surfaced first as a single from their 2015 LP. 
- Tobias Jesso Jr. – If you managed to grab some of those flexi-disc singles Jesso periodically mailed out this past year, you might be excited for his upcoming LP Goon due out March 17th featuring production from Chet White (Girls), Patrick Carney (The Black Keys), and Ariel Rechtshaid (holy shit.). 
- James Blake – Blake expects Overgrown to be released around April of 2015 and may feature Kanye on this LP.
- Kanye West – Seth Rogan may be the only layman to be exposed to Kanye’s new material after Kanye rapped over his new beats in a limo for Rogan. Apparently the album is near completion, implying a confident 2015 release.
- Death Grips – “Inanimate Sensation” dropped recently as the single from the second half of their double LP titled the powers that b. The second half will be released post their recent 2014 termination as Death Grips. Though this seems like the most predictable era of Death Grips’ career, can anybody ever really guess Death Grips’ next move? 
- Frank Ocean – Ocean is still in progress on a follow up LP to Channel Orange, but has been working with Hit-Boy and Rodney Jerkins to get it done. No word of a release date has been mentioned.
- Jay Rock – After putting out the 2014 “Pay for It” single and talk of a new album, it’s not clear on when another full length would be released. 
- Kendrick Lamar – Can Kendrick possibly top good kid m.A.A.d city? After putting out a few incredible albums it’s easy to trust him, despite that questionable 2014 single. At least it’s easy to depend on his features.
- Run the Jewels - While RTJ fans stay fed with El-P and Killer Mike retweets and the upcoming Meow the Jewels album, RTJ will be touring and apparently working on RTJ3 with Zack de la Rocha (Rage Against the Machine) starting in January 2015. 
- Sun Kil Moon – Mark Kozelek released Benji early in 2014 and mentioned in a Pitchfork article that he’s working on an incredible new album. Since then, he has been involved in an indie tiff with The War on Drugs and has released the excellent single “Possum” and a Christmas album under his own name.
- Grimes – People weren’t sure of the status of Grimes’ progress on a new album surrounding the release of the single “Go,” but apparently she has completed a few tracks. Though no date has been announced as far as a release is concerned, it wouldn’t be far-fetched to expect a full length from Grimes by the end of 2015. 
- The Avalanches – Call it cruel for dropping such a killer XL album in 2001 and then leaving fans dry for over a decade. We have heard talk from Danny Brown about mind-blowing collaborations, which only heighten fans’ expectations. Any information about a release date for a new LP is only speculation at this point, but fans keep their fingers crossed for a 2015 release.
- Jai Paul – According to XL’s in house producer, Jai has been working on finishing a proper LP. A release date is also speculation, but the producer (Rodaidh McDonald (again: holy shit.)) guarantees that Jai’s work will satisfy pent up fans. 
- Parquet Courts – Solely based on PC’s trajectory, is it unreasonable to expect some PC music in 2015? Content Nausea will be available on wax in January and is already available on other media. As usual you may find PC touring through your region at any given point in the year.
- Billy Woods – TBA 2014 was a mostly quiet year for Billy Woods. He only released the Furtive Movements EP as one half of Armand Hammer with Elucid. Recently Backwoodz Studioz tweeted to expect new solo albums in 2015 from Henry Canyons, Billy Woods, and Elucid. Billy Woods’s last solo album, a collaboration LP with producer Blockhead, was easily one of my favorite releases of 2013. Fans eagerly anticipate new material.
- Elucid – TBA Elucid has mostly been involved in Armand Hammer lately too. He hasn’t been the sole MC on a project since 2013’s For Madmen Only as Cult Favorite (a collaboration with producer A. M. Breakups). His recent output with Armand Hammer and feature verses for Uncommon Nasa and Willie Green has left fans hungry for some more Elucid music in our lives.
- Others: Ty Segall, Thee Oh Sees, and The Men – No official word on any of these albums yet, but these artists generally release one or more per year. So fans can rest assured to get new music from these guys next year.
